README.md, before:

[Partio](https://wdas.github.io/partio) - A library for particle IO and manipulation
=============================================================================================================

This is the initial source code release of partio a tool we used for particle
reading/writing.  It started out as an abstraction for the commonalities in
particle models (i.e. accessing many attributes associated with an index or
entity).

Super impatient building guide
==============================

        # Install Location ~ adjust accordingly
        prefix=$HOME/local
        git clone https://github.com/wdas/partio.git
        cd partio
        make -j prefix=$prefix install

Getting Started
===============

CMake is used to build the project, but we provide a top-level Makefile
for convenience that takes care of all the steps.

See the Makefile for the user-tweakable variables and corresponding
cmake options.

The typical usage for an installation into `/usr/local`
with a temporary staging directory of `/tmp/stage` is:

    make DESTDIR=/tmp/stage prefix=/usr/local install

Source code overview
====================

        src/
           lib/      Library code (public API in root)
           lib/core  Core library (KDtree traversal, data representations)
           lib/io    Input/Output (Different file formats)
           py/       SWIG based python bindings
           doc/      Doxygen documentation and (the start of) a manual
           tests/    Start of regression tests (I need more)
           tools/    Useful tools
                     partconvert <input format> <output format>
                     partinfo <particle file>
                     partview <particle file>

Class Model
-----------

The goal of the library is to abstract the particle interface from the data
representation. That is why Partio represents particles using three classes that
inherit and provide more functionality

ParticlesInfo - Information about # of particles and attributes
ParticlesData - Read only access to all particle data
ParticlesDataMutable - Read/write access to all particle data

The functions used to get particle access are these:

        readHeaders()
           returns ParticlesInfo
           reads only the minimum data necessary to get number of particles and
           attributes

        readCached()
           returns ParticlesData
           For multiple users in different threads using the same particle file
           ParticlesData

        create() and read()
           returns ParticlesDataMutable
           allows read/write access

Behind the scenes you could implement these classes however you like.  Headers
only representation is called core/ParticleHeader.{h,cpp}.  Simple
non-interleaved attributes is core/ParticleSimple.{h,cpp}.

Attribute Data Model
--------------------

All particles have the same data attributes.  They have the model that they are
of three basic types with a count of how many scalar values they have.

        VECTOR[3]
        FLOAT[d]
        INT[d]

        VECTOR[3] and FLOAT[3] have the same data representations.
        VECTOR[4] is invalid however FLOAT[4] is valid as is FLOAT[1...infinity]

This seems to encompass the most common file formats for particles


Iterating
---------

There are multiple ways to access data in the API. Here are
some tips

- Use SIMD functions when possible prefer dataAsFloat(),data(arrayOfIndices) as
  opposed to data(int singleIndex) which accesses multiple pieces of data at
  once

- Cache ParticleAttributes for quick access instead of calling attributeInfo()
  over a loop of particles

- Use iterators to do linear operations over all particles They are much more
  optimized than both data() and the dataAsFloat or


Backends
--------

Behind the scenes there are SimpleParticles, ParticleHeaders, and
SimpleParticlesInterleaved.  In the future I would like to write a disk-based
cached back end that can dynamically only load the data that is necessary.
create(), read() and readCached could be augmented to create different
structures in these cases.

Readers/Writers
---------------

New readers and writers can be added in the io/ directory. You simply need to
implement the interface ParticlesInfo, ParticlesData and ParticlesDataMutable
(or as many as you need). Editing the io/readers.h to add prototypes and
io/ParticleIO.cpp to add file extension bindings should be easy.


- Andrew Selle, Walt Disney Animation Studios

Commit message:

publish first version of  partio to PyPi

README.md, after:

# [Partio](https://wdas.github.io/partio) - A library for particle IO and manipulation

This is the initial source code release of partio a tool we used for particle
reading/writing. It started out as an abstraction for the commonalities in
particle models (i.e. accessing many attributes associated with an index or
entity).

# Super impatient building guide

        # Install Location ~ adjust accordingly
        prefix=$HOME/local
        git clone https://github.com/wdas/partio.git
        cd partio
        make -j prefix=$prefix install

# Getting Started

CMake is used to build the project, but we provide a top-level Makefile
for convenience that takes care of all the steps.

See the Makefile for the user-tweakable variables and corresponding
cmake options.

The typical usage for an installation into `/usr/local`
with a temporary staging directory of `/tmp/stage` is:

    make DESTDIR=/tmp/stage prefix=/usr/local install

# Source code overview

        src/
           lib/      Library code (public API in root)
           lib/core  Core library (KDtree traversal, data representations)
           lib/io    Input/Output (Different file formats)
           py/       SWIG based python bindings
           doc/      Doxygen documentation and (the start of) a manual
           tests/    Start of regression tests (I need more)
           tools/    Useful tools
                     partconvert <input format> <output format>
                     partinfo <particle file>
                     partview <particle file>

## Class Model

The goal of the library is to abstract the particle interface from the data
representation. That is why Partio represents particles using three classes that
inherit and provide more functionality

ParticlesInfo - Information about # of particles and attributes
ParticlesData - Read only access to all particle data
ParticlesDataMutable - Read/write access to all particle data

The functions used to get particle access are these:

        readHeaders()
           returns ParticlesInfo
           reads only the minimum data necessary to get number of particles and
           attributes

        readCached()
           returns ParticlesData
           For multiple users in different threads using the same particle file
           ParticlesData

        create() and read()
           returns ParticlesDataMutable
           allows read/write access

Behind the scenes you could implement these classes however you like. Headers
only representation is called core/ParticleHeader.{h,cpp}. Simple
non-interleaved attributes is core/ParticleSimple.{h,cpp}.

## Attribute Data Model

All particles have the same data attributes. They have the model that they are
of three basic types with a count of how many scalar values they have.

        VECTOR[3]
        FLOAT[d]
        INT[d]

        VECTOR[3] and FLOAT[3] have the same data representations.
        VECTOR[4] is invalid however FLOAT[4] is valid as is FLOAT[1...infinity]

This seems to encompass the most common file formats for particles

## Iterating

There are multiple ways to access data in the API. Here are
some tips

- Use SIMD functions when possible prefer dataAsFloat(),data(arrayOfIndices) as
  opposed to data(int singleIndex) which accesses multiple pieces of data at
  once

- Cache ParticleAttributes for quick access instead of calling attributeInfo()
  over a loop of particles

- Use iterators to do linear operations over all particles They are much more
  optimized than both data() and the dataAsFloat or

## Backends

Behind the scenes there are SimpleParticles, ParticleHeaders, and
SimpleParticlesInterleaved. In the future I would like to write a disk-based
cached back end that can dynamically only load the data that is necessary.
create(), read() and readCached could be augmented to create different
structures in these cases.

## Readers/Writers

New readers and writers can be added in the io/ directory. You simply need to
implement the interface ParticlesInfo, ParticlesData and ParticlesDataMutable
(or as many as you need). Editing the io/readers.h to add prototypes and
io/ParticleIO.cpp to add file extension bindings should be easy.

## Building the python Package for PyPi

To the partio for python and publish it to we have to build it using docker and upload it to PyPi.

```bash
# build the docker
  docker build -t partio .
  # run the build
  docker run partio
  # use twine to upload to pypi
  twine upload wheelhouse/*
```

- Andrew Selle, Walt Disney Animation Studios
